# SL1-E9-Atm_Database_System

Note: The Project is Run on Eclipse and Connectivity is done using maven so ensure you have a stable internet connection and suitable jre version.

The ATM System is the project which is used to access their bank accounts in order to make cash withdrawals. Whenever the user needs to make cash withdrawals, they can enter their PIN number (personal identification number) and it will display the amount to be withdrawn in the form of 100’s 500’s and 1000’s. Once their withdrawal was successful, the amount will be debited in their account. The ATM System is developed in VB.Net and a back-end database as Ms-Access. VB.Net is the one of the powerful versions of Framework and object oriented programming. Hence we use this software in our project. The ATM will service one customer at a time. A customer will be required to enter ATM Card number, personal identification number (PIN) – both of which will be sent to the database for validation as part of each transaction. The customer will then be able to perform one or more transactions. Also customers must be able to make a balance inquiry of any account linked to the card. The ATM will communicate each transaction to the database and obtain verification that it was allowed by the database. In the case of a cash withdrawal, a second message will be sent after the transaction has been physically completed (cash dispensed or envelope accepted). If the database determines that the customer’s PIN is invalid, the customer will be required to re-enter the PIN before a transaction can proceed. If a transaction fails for any reason other than an invalid PIN, the ATM will display an explanation of the problem, and will then ask the customer whether he/she wants to do another transaction. The ATM will provide the customer with a printed receipt for each successful transaction, showing the date, time, machine location, type of transaction, account(s), amount, and ending and available balance(s) of the affected account (“to” account for transfers).
